.TH "GIT-GET" "1" "GIT_GET_DATE" "git-get" "git-get manual"
.nh
.SH "NAME"
git-get - Blazingly fast, incredibly handy git clone alternative
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIgit get\fR [<options>] <url> [<branch>|<tag>|<sha1>] [-- <path>]
\fIgit get\fR [<options>] <user>/<repo> [<branch>|<tag>|<sha1>] [-- <path>]
\fIgit get\fR [<options>] https://github.com/<user>/<repo>/...
.fi
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
git-get uses git(1) to download a single file, directory, or repo from a remote repo\&.
Only minimium amount of data will be transferred\&.
It doesn't take care of git submodules; use \fBgit-gets\fR(1) if you want to interact with submodules\&.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
-V, --version
.RS 4
Show \fBgit-get\fR(1) version\&.
.RE
.PP
-h, --help
.RS 4
Show documentation\&.
.RE
.PP
-v, --verbose
.RS 4
Show intermediate steps\&.
.RE
.PP
-q, --quiet
.RS 4
Hide every intermediate information but errors.
This will suppress \fBgit-clone\fR(1) progress report\&.
.RE
.PP
-s, --ssh, -H, --https
.RS 4
Switch between SSH protocol and HTTPS protocol when accessing GitHub.
By default, ssh will be used to access github.com (including gist.github.com).
However, SSH may fail if you are on a machine
without any ssh keypair that can be used to connect to GitHub.
You can manually change such behaviors by \fB-H\fR.
Alternatively, setting environment variable \fBGH_USE_HTTPS\fR
or \fBGH_USE_SSH\fR to any non-empty value has similar effects.
Note that any access to non-GitHub remote repository is NOT affected.
.RE
.PP
-o <target>, --output=<target>
.RS 4
Put the downloaded file or directory to <target>\&.
See \fB-f\fR and \fB-F\fR options for overwrite policies\&.
.RE
.PP
-f, --force, -F, --rm-rf
.RS 4
\fB-f\fR is synonymous with \fB--force\fR\&.
\fB-F\fR is synonymous with \fB--rm-rm\fR\&.
If you downloaded a file/directory and <target> is an existing file,
you may override the file with \fB-f\fR.
If you downloaded a file and <target> is an existing directory,
the file is put into the directory\&.
If you downloaded a directory and <target> is an existing directory,
you may override the directory with \fB-F\fR\&.
In no case will a directory be put into an existing directory\&.
.RE
.PP
-x
.RS 4
Preserve and enhance the \fB.git\fR directory to
make the downloaded repository look as similar as one
created by an ordinary \fBgit clone\fR at the cost of a little bit
more network bandwidth and disk space.
You cannot use it together with \fB-g\fR nor \fB-t\fR.
Besides, you cannot use \fB-- <path>\fR when \fB-x\fR is set.
Specifically, using \fB-x\fR has the following effects:
.IP \[bu] 2
All commits will be downloaded: you can still view the full history
when doing a normal \fBgit log\fR.
.IP \[bu]
All trees and blobs will be lazy loaded: they won't be downloaded
until you explicitly checkout / switch / show it.
Thus, running \fBgit log -p\fR or \fBgit log --stat\fR WITHOUT ANY RESTRICTION
will trigger downloading the WHOLE REPOSITORY, an absolute disaster.
.IP \[bu]
\fBgit fetch\fR, \fBgit pull\fR, and \fBgit push\fR will behave (mostly) normal,
instead of mirroring by default.
.PP
To take a deeper look on this, please read the following reference:
.I git-partial-clone
.UR https://git-scm.com/docs/partial-clone
.UE .
.RE
.PP
-g, --preserve-git
.RS 4
Preserve the \fB.git\fR directory, but don't do anything superfluous
that may waste network bandwidth.
Compared to \fB-x\fR, using this option will not incur any additional
cost compared to that with neither of \fB-x\fR nor \fB-g\fR.
However, the actual respository may not be as exploitable as before.
See the discussion of \fB-x\fR to see the difference.
You cannot use it together with \fB-x\fR nor \fB-t\fR.
Besides, you cannot use \fB-- <path>\fR when \fB-g\fR is set.
.RE
.PP
-t, --tag-file=VERSION
.RS 4
Enable the generation of tag file by specifying \fB-t\fR\&.
Rename and relocate the tag file by specifying \fB--tag-file\fR (which implies \fB-t\fR\&.)
Tag file is a file, usually named VERSION, that is put along side with your downloaded file or inside your downloaded directory\&.
It records the SHA-1 of the commit you downloaded it from\&.
Without this file and without \fB.git\fR repo, others will lose track of where the code came from\&.
You cannot use it together with \fB-x\fR nor \fB-g\fR.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
Download a file:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
Method 1: Paste the original URL into the terminal:
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get/blob/master/README.md
.sp
Method 2: Of course, a full URL is acceptable:
$ git get git@github.com:b1f6c1c4/git-get -- README.md
.sp
Method 3a: Type a few words in the terminal:
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get -- README.md
.sp
Method 3b: If the above doesn't work because of SSH, use HTTPS:
$ git get -H b1f6c1c4/git-get -- README.md
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.RE
.PP
Download a folder:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
The same as before:
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get/tree/master/tests
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get -- tests
.sp
Optionally, you may want a VERSION file to record the commit SHA1:
$ git get -t ...
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.RE
.PP
Download a repo/branch/tag/commit:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
Also the same:
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get/tree/example-repo2
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get/commit/2dd50b6
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get example-repo2
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get 2dd50b6

You may wonder where did the .git go.
We automatically 'rm -rf .git' for you because in 95% of the cases
you won't even look at it. But if you really want your .git back:
$ git get -x ...
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.RE
.PP
Download a file/folder of a branch/tag/commit:
.sp
.if n \{\
.RS 4
.\}
.nf
Combine what you've learned before:
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get/blob/example-repo2/file
$ git get https://github.com/b1f6c1c4/git-get/tree/example-repo2/dir
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get example-repo2 -- file
$ git get b1f6c1c4/git-get example-repo2 -- dir
.sp
You \fBcannot\fR do -x and -t at the same time:
# git get -xt ... # Error!!!
.fi
.if n \{\
.RE
.\}
.RE
.SH "VARIABLES"
.PP
GH_USE_HTTPS
.RS 4
When called in the minimalistic <user>/<repo> form,
clone from https://github.com instead of git@github.com\&.
Helpful if there isn't an SSH key.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
\fBgit-gets\fR(1) \fBgit-clone\fR(1)
.SH "GIT-GET"
.sp
Part of the \fBgit-get\fR(1) suite, version GIT_GET_VERSION
